In this part, we will analyze some, uh,
simple queries for data analysis.
I will stay in that not presentation mode because I, in this way,
I can, um,
I can copy the queries and show you how they work.
So let's start with, um, what I already, uh,
announced that we might be interested in enhancing the readability
of output data. And for that it might, uh,
be sensible not to output the U R I, but, uh,
some labels or names and things like that.
So the resources mostly are annotated with labels,
and this can enhance the readability. Um,
in practic practice, there are diverse labels used, uh, for instance,
R D F S label or even schema name or scpr label.
And if it's an, uh, unknown knowledge graph, you might,
uh, first analyze which, uh, labels are used there.
Or we will come later on to another possibility which might be used
that you, um, ask or that you yeah,
ask the, um,
the query or ask in the query for different kinds of labels. But here we,
uh, stick to, um, to course prep label.
So we want to select, um,
the services and also the pref label.
It would be also possible only to output the pref labels, but we,
um,
need the variable for the services also because first they,
we have to, uh, address them in this, uh, graph, um,
pattern. Yeah, so we want to have all services,
which are declared as a schema service. And, uh,
the s and then afterwards, we want, want to, uh,
have their SPR labels here. Um, it also can be, um,
transferred to a mortars form. Yeah, you can put here this, um,
semicolon and, um,
omit this, uh, secondary mention of service. It, uh,
is also syntactically, um, perfect, usable.
So let's go. We want to, uh,
again, copy the query and go to the,
to the EC server, to the sparkle endpoint.
Syntax is okay.
And now we run the query. And you have here,
um, the, your eyes of the services.
You can see that you have 68 entries,
and here are the pref labels of the service.
But what you also can see is that the pref labels are added with
a so-called language tech. And you can see that each service has,
um,
an language tech or an a pref label in a German and a pref
label in English. So in the end, we do not have, uh,
68 services in the application. On the knowledge graph described this,
are, they are only 34,
but each of the service has two a pref labels in this
both languages. And therefore, you get an output of, uh,
68 entries. We will afterwards see how we can,
um,
filter only the German or only the English, uh,
labels. Uh, and, uh, as I told you, you can omit here,
uh, in the select, uh,
clause the service so that we will not get the,
your eyes in the output, but only the labels. It works the same.
And here you see again,
the same 68 entries, uh,
but only the labels and not the UIs itself.
So it depends what you need for the output. Should it be, um,
readable for humans or do you want to use them
in an application? And, and so on and so on.
Okay, let's go to the next. Uh, as I told you,
you can filter labels in specific languages. So, uh,
the label are in our knowledge graph at least, um,
uh, extended with so, such, uh, so-called language strings.
And for that we use the, um, keyword filter,
which is standard keyword also used in other, uh,
query languages. So you can see here, more or less the same as we had before,
but here added the filter clause.
So we have here the, um,
keyword length for language, and then in, um,
in braces you have the, um,
the variable for what we want to filter the, uh,
language, um, tag or the language specification.
And we want to have only the English, uh, the English.
So I think it might be enough to filter
this line, the others we have already here.
So we can add here within the curly braces this,
uh, filter cloth and run the query.
And now we must get
33, 34 entries.
And you can see here 34 services are in our
database. And, um, yeah, the, um,
language texts are also part of the output.
So if you want to use them afterwards for, um, for,
for an application for the user interface of an application,
you have to do some programming to, to omit that.
Uh,
let's have a look a little bit on the raw response.
Ah-huh on the raw response. Uh, you can hear,
get this without this, um, language text.
So maybe for programming, it's easier to access it here.
Okay. Then let's go to the next.
Um,
so imagine that you want to, to,
um, search for more complex, uh, graph patterns,
for instance. Um, yeah, let's take this, the example we have here. So we,
again, are searching for services, but um,
we also want to, um,
get the information for what this, or with,
with which, um, which
item or with which, uh, GA gadget the service is,
um, usable for that we, uh, use the, um,
relation IT card usable with. And, um,
it might be that we have services where this property
is not represented in the knowledge graph.
So this might be services which are not accessible or not usable
with a laptop or with a, a tablet or a thing like that,
because it's a main basic,
let's say technical service for what? For who,
for which it's not relevant to be, uh, used with such an,
um, such a final, uh,
final application technology. And, uh,
but to, to get nevertheless all services in, in addition,
the information, uh,
whether the service is usable with a specific appliance,
then we can put this clause in, uh,
this optional specific clause. Yeah,
you can see it's also with a curly a braces.
It is put in the main curly braces of the work loss. Um,
but you have here, in addition this, um,
keyword optional that mean the output will be all services.
And if the service has also for the service is
declared additional information, uh,
with which appliances is usable with, then this information is also,
uh, provided. So if you think of the table,
which might be the outcome for two, for two variables,
then there might be some holes in the table,
some empty cells. Okay, let's try it out.
Okay.
And now we will get the table output again.
So what we see, we see, uh, 90,
uh, six, um, entries. There is again, uh,
some redundancy. This is, um, in the nature of, of this, um,
kind of, um, database and kind of query language.
You can see that we have the service, um,
it, um, B S C V for instance.
And this service is accessible or usable with three
different, uh,
three different kinds of technology with laptop, with computer, with smartphone.
Uh,
today it might be of interest whether there's a difference between laptop and
computer, but at that time, uh, we thought it is. And, uh, here for instance,
you have a service web hosting where it's not, um,
interesting to have it, uh, accessible or usable with this, um,
with this technology. And therefore you have here an empty cell.
And the same is, uh, going on. Okay,
Let's
Go back. Ah, yeah, this is, uh,
the last for this part.
Okay.